TODO:

01.) Summary: Seed RNG, generate the serotype sequence, and re-seed
     Status : Fixed, commit b1cd1f74aa02b71de329421181cfdff41f740826
     Details: This will make the simulation independent of the length of the serotype sequence
              generated, in case we want to generate more years than we will use in ABC.

02.) Summary: Check the status of the 8-14 year olds on April 10, 1987, not December 31, 1986
     Status : Fixed, commit 6db4f9871864bff3acde69c0b0e2805a6e39961f
     Details: 

03.) Summary: Address negative mosquito counts
     Status : Fixed, commit 95d64c4f3c3f5f31739ed67187cd3db4fc888abe
     Details: Mosquitoes that do not survive the EIP are being killed twice.

04.) Summary: Add 100 days at the end, to finish on April 9
     Status : Ignore; conflicts with #11
     Details: 

05.) Summary: Output serotypes, mosquitoes, and population immunity at end of posterior runs
     Status : Partially fixed, commit b1cd1f74aa02b71de329421181cfdff41f740826
     Details: We are currently outputting these things, but we won't always want them (e.g.,
              not for runs that don't make it into the posterior.  Runs that are selected for
              the posterior are then re-run in order to gather more information about them,
              like these outputs.  We might want to implement some more sophisticated control
              flow for turning on/off these outputs.

06.) Summary: Turn off the weird carrying capacity but not bit with infected mosquitoes
     Status : Ignore; probably fixed elsewhere (e.g. #12).
     Details: Not sure what this note was referring to.

07.) Summary: Use seasonally-varying EIP based on temperature
     Status : Fixed, commits cbd7d398f4, daf1fcc004, d712ae14e3
     Details: Already supported and previously used; need to dig up that code and data, and
              write up the process C and I came up with for converting temp data to effective
              daily EIPs.

08.) Summary: Impose empirical serotypes for 35 year period
     Status : Ignore for now
     Details: Sample from conditional distributions to get serotypes before and after the
              window we know about.  Probably don't bother refitting serotype model to
              integrate over all possibly serotypes circulating in missing years, because
              that would make this challenging.

09.) Summary: Add autocorrelation coefficients as metrics
     Status : Ignore for now
     Details: CABP and I have discussed this at length, but have not come to any firm
              conclusions about what kind of autocorrelation analysis is best.  Unless
              something definitive is decided, I'm going to use whatever method I can get
              working and understand the implications of.  Needs to be implemented in C++; I'm
              not adding an R dependency to the fitting procedure for this one thing.

10.) Summary: Consider adding epidemic size quartiles as metrics, taking out maximum
     Status : Fixed using all quartiles, commit 8884e4ed899548ae2f52319f9b8f4031ad061b8f
     Details: One of Aaron King's suggestions

11.) Summary: Start sim and vaccinate on April 10, age on April 9
     Status : Fixed, commit 6db4f9871864bff3acde69c0b0e2805a6e39961f
     Details:  

12.) Summary: Kill off some infected mosquitoes when monthly capacity decreases
     Status : Fixed, commit bf826a2f62c3fba8a2b2104e0cc2f09c31703d72
     Details: Our mosquito seasonality currently gives special treatment to infected
              mosquitoes: when a location's capacity decreases (e.g. at end of rainy season),
              susceptible mosquitoes are implicitly killed off, but infectious mosquitoes are
              allowed to finish a normal lifespan.  Aside from being inconsistent, this is
              potentially the cause of (or a contributor to) the lag observed in the
              simulated seasonal epidemic curve, as compared to the empirical curve.  At the
              end of Infectious mosquitoes should be killed off with probability
              1 - min(k_2/k_1, 1.0) [corrected by JRCP from original email], where k_2 is the
              new months multiplier and k_1 is last months multiplier.  In months where
              capacity increases, nothing happens to infected mosquitoes because the
              additional cap space is filled with susceptible mosquitoes.

13.) Summary: Reduce mosquito pops AND introductions during DDT period
     Status : Fixed, commit 662511eb2084d4ecb1c3261a89f280a6d50e6755
     Details: Per Hector's malaria paper, spraying insecticides for malaria began in 1956.  In
              1958, 77% of homes in Yucatan were sprayed, with higher coverage (rough average
              = 90%) for nearby states.  Even though these numbers are far from perfect
              (different insecticides were used, or not used, with changing protocols over the
              "DDT period"), they are better than what we have had.

              Original comments from JRCP: Seems that in the 'DDT period' case introductions
              stop but mosquito populations aren't affect. This seems the opposite of what one
              would expect to occur biologically - where you would expect the same number (or
              possibly lower, but not zero) of introductions, with limited (or approximately
              0) subsequent transmission (because mosquito numbers have dropped dramatically.
              The new version of the incidence figure highlights the consequences of the way
              it's currently modeled vs the more plausible version: during the DDT period,
              number of cases dip gradually instead of dipping more suddenly and then
              gradually rebounding (which is what you would expect, if you have introductions
              but 'no' local transmission - population level immunity would decline through
              time some more introductions would be 'successful'). How difficult would it be
              to implement so that the DDT periods gets introductions but has limited or no
              mosquito capacity?

14.) Summary: New/alt parameters - separate DF and DHF expansion factors
     Status : Fixed using reporting probs, commit 8884e4ed899548ae2f52319f9b8f4031ad061b8f 
     Details: Probably implement this as a EF_DF and a EF_DHF_multiplier on [0,1].  In other
              words, the DF EF can vary, perhaps with a U(20,50) prior, while the DHF
              multiplier might have a U(0,1) prior.

15.) Summary: Fix mosquito movement parameter to Dennis' value
     Status : Fixed, commit 8884e4ed899548ae2f52319f9b8f4031ad061b8f
     Details: This parameter is essentially unidentifiable using the current (and likely
              proposed) metrics.  Per experimenting with ABC, including it likely slows down
              the estimation procedure, and increases the credible intervals around other
              parameters.

16.) Summary: New metrics - mean DHF prevalence, slope and intercept of DHF regression
     Status : Fixed using logistic regression, commit 8884e4ed899548ae2f52319f9b8f4031ad061b8f
     Details: We have the data and are predicting severe cases, we might as well be fitting to
              it.

17.) Summary: Use an elevated secondary pathogenicty probability
     Status : Supported but set to 1 per comm w/ Diana, commit 8884e4ed89
     Details: Currently, primary and non-primary infections are equally likely to be
              symptomatic.  We know this is unrealistic, but exactly what is realistic is
              poorly understood.  Certainly, secondary infections have an elevated
              pathogenicity, but it is dependent on serotypes involved (which we likely do not
              have adequate data to parameterize).  It's debated whether post-secondary
              infections also have elevated pathogenicity, and possibly even whether they are
              common at all.  Currently proposed implementation is to make all post-primary 
              infections 1.5x as likely to be symptomatic.

18.) Summary: Use daily-varying mosquito numbers based on spline fit to precip data
     Status : Fixed, commit 662511eb2084d4ecb1c3261a89f280a6d50e6755
     Details: 

19.) Summary: Re-fit serotype model, integrating over missing years
     Status : Ignore for now
     Details: 


=============================================================================================


From emails:

### TH to JRCP, CABP

I was pretty sure there was more, and I just remembered what they were:

- Seed RNG, generate the serotype sequence, and re-seed.  This will make the simulation
  independent of the length of the serotype sequence generated, in case we want to generate
  more years than we will use in ABC

- Check the status of the 8-14 year olds on April 10, 1987, not December 31, 1986

And to recap the other stuff:

- Run with only non-negative numbers of mosquitoes

- Add 100 days at the end, to finish on April 9, outputting serotypes, mosquitoes, and
  immunity

- Turn off the weird carrying capacity but not bit with infected mosquitoes

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### TH to JRCP, CABP

More abc-to-do notes:

- Consider seasonally (not annually) varying EIP, as this is already implemented and I have
  the temp data, but we haven't tried it because we never looked at whether the seasonality
  was good before.

- Impose serotypes for 35 year period, sample from conditional distributions to get
  serotypes before and after the window we know about.

- Add autocorrelation coefficients as metrics.

- Consider adding quartiles as metrics, possibly taking out maximum (one of Aaron King's
  suggestions).

- Probably don't bother refitting serotype model to integrate over all possibly serotypes
  circulating in missing years, because that would make the second bullet above a pita.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### TH to JRCP, CABP

Something to consider:

Immunity swapping and vaccination both should occur during the "off-season."  It's
definitely weird, I think, to vaccinate and then immediately age the population.  That would
mean that in the year immediately following vaccination, the number of vaccinated people
would be different from the number of doses administered.

Currently, vaccinations happen on Julian day 100 (day 99 of the simulator, if the simulator
starts on Jan 1), while immunity swapping occurs on simulator-year day 364, or when
simulator day + 1 % 365 == 0.  So . . . we should decide something, and then do it.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### CABP to TJH, JRCP

Wait, the write up said immunity swapping occurred in off season as well?  I agree with
making it happen then - the argument for then was very sensible.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### TH to JRCP, CABP

Additional note from conversations today:

Our mosquito seasonality currently gives special treatment to infected mosquitoes: when a
location's capacity decreases (e.g. at end of rainy season), susceptible mosquitoes are
implicitly killed off, but infectious mosquitoes are allowed to finish a normal lifespan.
Aside from being inconsistent, this is potentially the cause of (or a contributor to) the
lag observed in the simulated seasonal epidemic curve, as compared to the empirical curve.
At the end of Infectious mosquitoes should be killed off with probability 1 - min(k_2/k_1,
1.0) [corrected from original email by JRCP], where k_2 is the new months multiplier and k_1
is last months multiplier.  In months where capacity increases, nothing happens to infected
mosquitoes because the additional cap space is filled with susceptible mosquitoes.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### JRCP to TJH, CABP

C and I also came up w another issue, that I think should be addressed with these changes.
Seems that in the 'DDT period' case introductions stop but mosquito populations aren't
affect. This seems the opposite of what one would expect to occur biologically - where you
would expect the same number (or possibly lower, but not zero) of introductions, with
limited (or approximately 0) subsequent transmission (because mosquito numbers have dropped
dramatically. The new version of the incidence figure highlights the consequences of the way
it's currently modeled vs the more plausible version: during the DDT period, number of cases
dip gradually instead of dipping more suddenly and then gradually rebounding (which is what
you would expect, if you have introductions but 'no' local transmission - population level
immunity would decline through time some more introductions would be 'successful'). How
difficult would it be to implement so that the DDT periods gets introductions but has
limited or no mosquito capacity?

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### TH to JRCP, CABP

If DDT was applied throughout the region, then it should affect both mosquitoes and
introductions.  Currently, however, I have no hard info about any of that.  Maybe I can ask
Diana to look into this, since sources may well be in Spanish.  Yesterday Ira asked me if
the paper could be done in a month.  I told him I didn't think it would quite be ready to
submit, but I don't think we're so far from that anymore.  The real problem is that I just
haven't had time to sit down and focus on making these changes, and with the Cuba thing
coming up and Carl going back to Ghana, the next few weeks don't look awesome.  If these
changes don't happen before 8/22, they will become the priority at that point.
